docs/analysis-and-testing.md, before:

# Creating automated web applications tests for MUTE

With the high complexity of the code, each addition to the code might add a bug that may not be perceivable.
As we aim to modify, evolve mute and add features in the future, we need to have a testing suite to guarantee the non-regression of MUTE's core functionalities.

## **Choosing an automated test suite solution**

### **What should be the core features of the testing suite solution ?**
From a wide perspective, the testing suite should fulfill these conditions :
- Fairly easy to understand and use
- Strongly supported by the community : documented and maintained
- Specific features : 
    - Being able to open multiple tabs in a browser at once
    - Being compatible with much of the main browsers on the market
    - Allowing users to write tests in Typescript
    - Being usable in a container environment (Docker, Github actions) 
- *Bonus features :*
    - Being easily scalable to test browsers as if we were on different devices (tablet, smartphone...)

### **Main scenario of the POC**

To test the capabilities of the automated test suite that will be used in this poc, we have a scenario that should cover our needs.
If the automated test suite can easily flow through the steps, it means that it can be a suitable option as a test suite for MUTE.

The test suite will be tested on [this version](https://github.com/BaptisteHubert/mute/releases/tag/0.12.3) of MUTE. Tests will run on an instance of mute running locally)

These are the main steps that the automated test suite should verify:

1. A browser tab is launched, with the url of mute.
2. A document is opened. 
    - An editor is accessible 
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
3. Text is written on the document
4. Another browser tab is launched, with the url of the previous document.
    - The document is opened.
    - The signaling server is accessible after a second 
    - There should be two user on the document
    - Text in the editor should be the exact same as the text written in the previous step.
5. The signaling server is killed off
    - There should still be two user on the document
6. Browser tab 1 adds text to the document. Browser tab 2 adds text to the document
    - Browser tab 1 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document
    - Browser tab 2 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document 
7. The signaling server is rebooted
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
    - Text is merged and appears the same in the two browser tabs

#### **Additional scenario**

*Ui specific*
- Two users connect on the same document
- In the first tab, the username is changed to User1
- In the second tab, the username is changed to User2
- In the users list in each tab, name should be correct


### **End-To-End web application testing solutions**

- [Testcafe.io](https://testcafe.io/) - **The solution that we will be using**
    - Typescript support for writing tests
    - TestCafe tests are Node.js scripts.
    - Relatively complete documentation, with [example repository](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-examples) available
    - Browser Sandboxing - Deletes all browser cookies (*useful as it will ensure each run to be a clean run, devoid of noise from previous runs*)
    - Distributed for free under the MIT license
- [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/) 
    - No native support for TypeScript as of 29/09/2022 but a [@types/selenium-webdriver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/selenium-webdriver) exists.
    - Support for multiple tabs and multiple browsers
    - Distributed for free under the Apache 2.0 license
- [Appium](https://appium.io/)
    - Mainly used for native, mobile web and hybrid mobile apps
    - Server written in Node.js
    - Supports android, IOS apps but also Windows apps.
- [Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/overview/why-cypress)
    - no multi tabs support - [source](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/trade-offs#Multiple-browsers-open-at-the-same-time)

From this list, we will make this POC with TestCafe.


## **Specificity of MUTE for testing**

### **Where to click to have the focus on the editor :**
How are the lines presented :
Lines added are in a block with the CodeMirror-lines class.
In this object, there is a div containing a CodeMirror-code class.
In the CodeMirror-code, there are all the lines on the document

Here is the full route 
```
html
--body
----mute-root 
------mute-doc
--------mat-sidenav-content
----------mat-drawer-container
------------mat-drawer-content
--------------mute-editor 
----------------mat-card
------------------div mat-card mat-focus-indicator card-lt-sm
--------------------div tui-editor-defaultUI
----------------------div te-toolbar-section
------------------------div tui-editor te-md-mode
--------------------------div te-md-container te-preview-style-tab
----------------------------div te-editor te-tab-active
------------------------------div CodeMirror cm-s-default CodeMirror-wrap 
```

The text written is available at the previous route, with this additional route
```
div CodeMirror-scroll
--div CodeMirror-sizer 
----div
------div
--------CodeMirror-lines
----------div
------------div CoveMirror-code
```


In code mirror editor, here are the lines as typed :

```
Hello,

How are you

Have a good day
```

In the editor side, we will have 6 lines in the CodeMirror-lines class, 
```
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation">Hello,</span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation"></span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation">How are you</span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation"></span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation">Have a good day</span>
</pre>
```

Additionally, the text written in the editor is available (*without accounting newlines*) under a div with the class `tui-editor-contents`.

##  **Results of automated test suite solution**

### **TestCafe**

#### **Technical choices**

*Comparing what's written in the editor with an expected text*  
We faced issues when doing this because invisible characters (*u200B control characters*) made the above assertion impossible to pass.
As a solution, we were helped both by [this comment](https://stackoverflow.com/a/51602415), as it helped us format the text written in the edito to remove control characters, but we were still facing issues with newline and spaces making comparing string impossible. With this comment, we knew that normalizing the text was necessary.  
We found a solution in [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/71459391), as we used this code in our `tools.normalizeTextForEql` and subsequent `tools.normalizeNewlineAndSpace` function.

#### **How is it doing with the scenario**

1. A browser tab is launched, with the url of mute.
2. A document is opened. 
    - An editor is accessible 
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
3. Text is written on the document
4. Another browser tab is launched, with the url of the previous document.
    - The document is opened.
    - The signaling server is accessible after a second 
    - There should be two user on the document
    - Text in the editor should be the exact same as the text written in the previous step.
5. The signaling server is killed off
    - There should still be two user on the document
6. Browser tab 1 adds text to the document. Browser tab 2 adds text to the document
    - Browser tab 1 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document
    - Browser tab 2 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document 
7. The signaling server is rebooted
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
    - Text is merged and appears the same in the two browser tabs

Commit message:

docs: updated analysis to explain the fix for the cursor in the editor

docs/analysis-and-testing.md, after:

# Creating automated web applications tests for MUTE

With the high complexity of the code, each addition to the code might add a bug that may not be perceivable.
As we aim to modify, evolve mute and add features in the future, we need to have a testing suite to guarantee the non-regression of MUTE's core functionalities.

## **Choosing an automated test suite solution**

### **What should be the core features of the testing suite solution ?**
From a wide perspective, the testing suite should fulfill these conditions :
- Fairly easy to understand and use
- Strongly supported by the community : documented and maintained
- Specific features : 
    - Being able to open multiple tabs in a browser at once
    - Being compatible with much of the main browsers on the market
    - Allowing users to write tests in Typescript
    - Being usable in a container environment (Docker, Github actions) 
- *Bonus features :*
    - Being easily scalable to test browsers as if we were on different devices (tablet, smartphone...)

### **Main scenario of the POC**

To test the capabilities of the automated test suite that will be used in this poc, we have a scenario that should cover our needs.
If the automated test suite can easily flow through the steps, it means that it can be a suitable option as a test suite for MUTE.

The test suite will be tested on [this version](https://github.com/BaptisteHubert/mute/releases/tag/0.12.3) of MUTE. Tests will run on an instance of mute running locally)

These are the main steps that the automated test suite should verify:

1. A browser tab is launched, with the url of mute.
2. A document is opened. 
    - An editor is accessible 
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
3. Text is written on the document
4. Another browser tab is launched, with the url of the previous document.
    - The document is opened.
    - The signaling server is accessible after a second 
    - There should be two user on the document
    - Text in the editor should be the exact same as the text written in the previous step.
5. The signaling server is killed off
    - There should still be two user on the document
6. Browser tab 1 adds text to the document. Browser tab 2 adds text to the document
    - Browser tab 1 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document
    - Browser tab 2 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document 
7. The signaling server is rebooted
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
    - Text is merged and appears the same in the two browser tabs

#### **Additional scenario**

*Ui specific*
- Two users connect on the same document
- In the first tab, the username is changed to User1
- In the second tab, the username is changed to User2
- In the users list in each tab, name should be correct


### **End-To-End web application testing solutions**

- [Testcafe.io](https://testcafe.io/) - **The solution that we will be using**
    - Typescript support for writing tests
    - TestCafe tests are Node.js scripts.
    - Relatively complete documentation, with [example repository](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-examples) available
    - Browser Sandboxing - Deletes all browser cookies (*useful as it will ensure each run to be a clean run, devoid of noise from previous runs*)
    - Distributed for free under the MIT license
- [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/) 
    - No native support for TypeScript as of 29/09/2022 but a [@types/selenium-webdriver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/selenium-webdriver) exists.
    - Support for multiple tabs and multiple browsers
    - Distributed for free under the Apache 2.0 license
- [Appium](https://appium.io/)
    - Mainly used for native, mobile web and hybrid mobile apps
    - Server written in Node.js
    - Supports android, IOS apps but also Windows apps.
- [Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/overview/why-cypress)
    - no multi tabs support - [source](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/trade-offs#Multiple-browsers-open-at-the-same-time)

From this list, we will make this POC with TestCafe.


## **Specificity of MUTE for testing**

### **Where to click to have the focus on the editor :**
How are the lines presented :
Lines added are in a block with the CodeMirror-lines class.
In this object, there is a div containing a CodeMirror-code class.
In the CodeMirror-code, there are all the lines on the document

Here is the full route 
```
html
--body
----mute-root 
------mute-doc
--------mat-sidenav-content
----------mat-drawer-container
------------mat-drawer-content
--------------mute-editor 
----------------mat-card
------------------div mat-card mat-focus-indicator card-lt-sm
--------------------div tui-editor-defaultUI
----------------------div te-toolbar-section
------------------------div tui-editor te-md-mode
--------------------------div te-md-container te-preview-style-tab
----------------------------div te-editor te-tab-active
------------------------------div CodeMirror cm-s-default CodeMirror-wrap 
```

The text written is available at the previous route, with this additional route
```
div CodeMirror-scroll
--div CodeMirror-sizer 
----div
------div
--------CodeMirror-lines
----------div
------------div CoveMirror-code
```


In code mirror editor, here are the lines as typed :

```
Hello,

How are you

Have a good day
```

In the editor side, we will have 6 lines in the CodeMirror-lines class, 
```
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation">Hello,</span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation"></span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation">How are you</span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation"></span>
</pre>
<pre class=" CodeMirror-line " role="presentation">
    <span role="presentation">Have a good day</span>
</pre>
```

Additionally, the text written in the editor is available (*without accounting newlines*) under a div with the class `tui-editor-contents`.

##  **Results of automated test suite solution**

### **TestCafe**

#### **Technical choices**

*Comparing what's written in the editor with an expected text*  
We faced issues when doing this because invisible characters (*u200B control characters*) made the above assertion impossible to pass.
As a solution, we were helped both by [this comment](https://stackoverflow.com/a/51602415), as it helped us format the text written in the edito to remove control characters, but we were still facing issues with newline and spaces making comparing string impossible. With this comment, we knew that normalizing the text was necessary.  
We found a solution in [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/71459391), as we used this code in our `tools.normalizeTextForEql` and subsequent `tools.normalizeNewlineAndSpace` function.

Another problem that we faced during the POC, is that when two users are on the same document, the other user name is written in the editor `innertext`. We found out that, when another user is on the document, at the place where he is, a span with class `CodeMirror-widget` is there to give information about the current other user.

Some way of going through this :
- Waiting for the cursor to disappear - ```await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 10000));``` - KO
- Removing " Anonymous" from the string - Not clean enough and not adaptable to most use cases- KO
- Getting the lines written, and check if a `<span>` with the aforementioned class is in the line - A bit of code but should globally work - OK
    - We go through the child of the `CodeMirror-line` element. Normally (*when there are no visible cursor in the editor*), there should only be a span containing the text of the line. When the span with the class `CodeMirror-widget` appears, it appears as a child of the span mentioned before. In the code, we are going through the line, and verifying if there are child elements where there shouldn't be (the child of the child of the `CodeMirror-line` element)
    - We found a way to get the HTMl value of the elements in a `CodeMirror-line` using the code provided in the first example, for TypeScript, in [the documentation](https://testcafe.io/documentation/402759/reference/test-api/selector/addcustomdomproperties) from TestCafe.
    - We used the regex provided in [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/226591) and adapted it to our needs
    - We are then removing the excess in the HTML to get the clean text value of the line.


#### **How is it doing with the scenario**

1. A browser tab is launched, with the url of mute.
2. A document is opened. 
    - An editor is accessible 
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
3. Text is written on the document
4. Another browser tab is launched, with the url of the previous document.
    - The document is opened.
    - The signaling server is accessible after a second 
    - There should be two user on the document
    - Text in the editor should be the exact same as the text written in the previous step.
5. The signaling server is killed off
    - There should still be two user on the document
6. Browser tab 1 adds text to the document. Browser tab 2 adds text to the document
    - Browser tab 1 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document
    - Browser tab 2 leave the document and then re-join it. The modification bound to this tab should still be visible in the document 
7. The signaling server is rebooted
    - The signaling server is accessible after a few seconds
    - Text is merged and appears the same in the two browser tabs
